Reference for (new) stage 3 array-grouping (#28424)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/javascript/reference/global_objects/map/groupby/index.md

> ---

Reviewer: Don't static methods need to have `_static` in the filename?

Author: No... not for JS docs.

Reviewer: That might just be a Web API thingy. Also I see a different convention for naming the statics vs instances.

Author: That's right. I pushed back against this change in JS docs (for both the retitling and changing slugs)

Reviewer: All good. I don't track JS closely enough to _not_ ask these kinds of questions. When you have a template I'll check that instead.

title: Map.groupBy()
slug: Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Map/groupBy
page-type: javascript-static-method
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: javascript.builtins.Map.groupBy
---

{{JSRef}} {{SeeCompatTable}}

> > **Note:** In some versions of some browsers, this method was implemented as the method `Array.prototype.groupToMap`. Due to web compatibility issues, it is now implemented as a static method. Check the [browser compatibility table](#browser_compatibility) for details.

Reviewer: These notes aren't going to be relevant for more than a few months/releases, so I suggest that it is moved to the bottom of the introduction (and same for one in other doc). Soon after we should remove the notes altogether - maybe once it is no longer experimental.

Author: This was shipped in Safari stable (16.4+), so it's going to be kept for at least 2 years. Same goes for `Intl.Locale.prototype.getCollations`, etc.

Reviewer: True, but it still isn't all that relevant as soon as the proper version is out there - BCD is enough. IMO not important enough to be the first thing you see.

Author: Erm—I really don't know. Since this method has been advertised for a while, I would at least keep it for a while. This is the least confusing way other than not deleting the original page at all (which was supposed to be the case for features that had shipped in stable browsers)

Reviewer: It's up to you. My take is keep the item for now, but move it down to the end of the introduction. But it isn't a big deal - if you find this page you're already on the right track.

If the object is invariant, you might instead represent it using a string, and group elements with {{jsxref("Object.groupBy()")}}.

<!-- {{EmbedInteractiveExample("pages/js/map-groupby.html")}} -->

## Syntax

```js-nolint
Map.groupBy(items, callbackFn)
```

### Parameters

- `items`
  - : An [iterable](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Iteration_protocols#the_iterable_protocol) (such as an {{jsxref("Array")}}) whose elements will be grouped.
- `callbackFn`
  - : A function to execute for each element in the iterable. It should return a value ({{Glossary("object")}} or {{Glossary("primitive")}}) indicating the group of the current element. The function is called with the following arguments:
    - `element`
      - : The current element being processed.
    - `index`
      - : The index of the current element being processed.

### Return value

A {{jsxref("Map")}} object with keys for each group, each assigned to an array containing the elements of the associated group.

## Description

`Map.groupBy()` calls a provided `callbackFn` function once for each element in an iterable.

> The callback function returns a value indicating the group of the associated element.

Reviewer: I think - we're telling people what they need to do here, not what what it does (i.e. shouldn't we word this as "what you do")
```suggestion
The callback function must return a value indicating the group of the associated element.
```

  quantity < 6 ? restock : sufficient,
);
console.log(result.get(restock));
// [{ name: "bananas", type: "fruit", quantity: 5 }]
```

Note that the function argument `{ quantity }` is a basic example of [object destructuring syntax for function arguments](/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Destructuring_assignment#unpacking_properties_from_objects_passed_as_a_function_parameter).
This unpacks the `quantity` property of an object passed as a parameter, and assigns it to a variable named `quantity` in the body of the function.
This is a very succinct way to access the relevant values of elements within a function.

The key to a `Map` can be modified and still used.
However you can't recreate the key and still use it.
For this reason it is important that anything that needs to use the map keeps a reference to its keys.

```js
// The key can be modified and still used
restock["fast"] = true;
console.log(result.get(restock));
// [{ name: "bananas", type: "fruit", quantity: 5 }]

// A new key can't be used, even if it has the same structure!
const restock2 = { restock: true };
console.log(result.get(restock2)); // undefined

> ```

Reviewer: If I was to do this now I would make it a live example.

Author: I would still think that `console.log`-kind of examples belong best as either static examples or interactive ones.

Reviewer: Meh. But either way, one of the two things should be there.

Author: I would probably add the interactive example once this feature becomes stable in one or two browsers.

Reviewer: The main reason I like live/interactive examples is that they give you instant feedback on whether the API works on your browser. Waiting for stability is exactly the opposite of their main use case for me.

Again your call, but I see very clear benefit to early addition of live testing.
